Git notes

## Branch Management

### To delete a local branch

Use `git branch -d <branch>` to delete a local branch

### To delete a remote branch

Use `git push <remote_name> -d <branch>` 

### To delete a local remote tracking branch

```code
git branch --delete --remotes <remote_name>/<branch>
git branch -dr <remote_name>/<branch> # Shorter
```

### To push local branch to remote

`git push -u <remote_name> <branch>` will push `<branch>` to remote by creating a new branch on `remote_name` and setting local `branch` to track remote branch on `remote_name`

### To create a new branch off of the current branch

`git checkout -b <branch>`

**Note:** in most cases, `remote_name` will be `origin`

References:
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2003505/how-do-i-delete-a-git-branch-locally-and-remotely

## File management

The "index" holds a snapshot of the content of the working tree, and it is this snapshot that is taken as the contents of the next commit. Thus after making any changes to the working tree, and before running the commit command, you must use the add command to add any new or modified files to the index.

### To add all modified files to the index

`git add .`

### To add a specific file or directory to the index

`git add <filename>`

## Git bisect

Uses a binary search algorithm to find which commit in your project's history introduced a bug.

You use it by first telling it a "bad" commit that is known to contain the bug, and a "good" commit that is known to be before the bug was introduced. Then `git bisect` picks a commit between those two endpoints and asks you whether the selected commit is "good" or "bad". It continues narrowing down the range until it finds the exact commit that introduced the change.

If the search range is of `N` commits, we should expect to test `1 + log2(N)` commits with `git bisect` instead of roughly `N / 2` commits with a linear search.

References:
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4713088/how-to-use-git-bisect

## Git Working Tree, Index, and HEAD

In Git the "working tree" refers to the directory (and its files and subdirectories) on your file system that is associated with a repository.

The Git "index" refers to where you place files that you want to commit to the git repository. The index itself is not the git repository, instead it can be seen as a staging ground for files that you want to commit. Before you can run a git commit, you need to first place the files in the git index by using `git add`. You can also use the `git status` command which will return all the files in your working directory which have been added to the git index.

`HEAD` is a pointer to the branch or commit that you last checked out and which will be the parent of a new commit if you make it. For instance, if you're on the `master` branch, then `HEAD` will point to master, and when you commit, that new commit will be a descendent of the revision that master pointed to, and master will be updated to point to the new commit. If the branch commit history is a linked list, then `HEAD` would be the head of the linked list (where the head of the linked list is the latest commit).

References:
1. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3689838/whats-the-difference-between-head-working-tree-and-index-in-git
2. https://dzone.com/articles/beyond-beginning-git-working-tree-index-and-head

## Miscellaneous

Interesting `git` implementation project: https://wyag.thb.lt/

Untrack files that have already been committed: `git rm --cached <file>`. 

### revert back to previous commit

`git reset [--soft | --mixed [-N] | --hard | --merge | --keep]`

**soft**

When using `git reset --soft HEAD~1` you will remove the last commit from the current branch, but the file changes will **stay in your working tree**. Also the changes will **stay on your index**, so following with a `git commit` will create a commit with the exact same changes as the commit you "removed" before.

**mixed**

This is **the default mode** and quite similar to soft. When "removing" a commit with `git reset HEAD~1` you will still **keep the changes in your working tree but not on the index**; so if you want to "redo" the commit, you will have to add the changes (`git add`) before commiting.

**hard**

When using `git reset --hard HEAD~1` you will lose all uncommited changes in addition to the changes introduced in the last commit. The **changes won't stay in your working tree** so doing a git status command will tell you that you don't have any changes in your repository.

**keep**

TODO: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24728543/git-reset-merge-vs-git-reset-keep

Source:
1. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24568936/what-is-difference-between-git-reset-hard-head1-and-git-reset-soft-head

## Merging

To merge a branch `foo` into `bar`:

```code
git checkout bar
git merge foo
```

## Tracking Branches

`git remote`: manage set of tracked repositories

`git remote show origin`: prints link that `origin` is an alias to

`git remote -v`: lists tracked repositories

`git remote rename origin booyah`: renames alias for tracked repository from `origin` to `booyah`

To make local `master` branch "track" remote `origin` (remember, `origin` is an alias to the remote): `git push -u origin master`

Note: `-u` option is the shortcut for the `--set-upstream` option (e.g., `git push --set-upstream origin master`)

`git checkout --track origin/daves_branch`: this command will create a local branch named `daves_branch`, tracking the remote branch `origin/daves_branch`

Note: `--track` is shorthand for `git checkout -b [branch] [remotename]/[branch]` where `[remotename]` is `origin` in this case and `[branch]` is twice the same, `daves_branch` in this case ([source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9537392/git-fetch-remote-branch)). See [alternative approach](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Working-with-Remotes).

## Create a repository

`origin`: when you clone a repository for the first time `origin` is a default name given to the original remote repository that you clone, from where you want to `push` and `pull` changes. So basically `origin` is alias of your so big remote repository name. By saying `git push origin <branch_name>`, you are saying to push to the original repository.

__master__: `master` is the name of the default branch that git creates for you when first create a repository. In most cases, `master` means "the main branch”. It's the branch that represents production code, and that all other branches come from and generally eventually rejoin.

1. `git init`: creates an empty Git repository or reinitialize an existing one (basically a .git directory with subdirectories for `objects`, `refs/heads`, `refs/tags`, and `template` files. An initial `HEAD` file that references the `HEAD` of the `master` branch is also created)
2. `git add .`: adds all file contents to the "index" (the index holds a snapshot of the content of the working tree, and it is this snapshot that is taken as the contents of the next commit)
3. `git commit -m "first commit"`: create a new commit containing the current contents of the index and the given log message describing the changes. The new commit is a direct child of `HEAD`, usually the tip of the current branch, and the branch is updated to point to it 
4. `git remote add origin https://github.com/gutucristian/probable-robot.git`: creates a new remote called `origin` located at `https://github.com/gutucristian/probable-robot.git`. Once you do this, in your `push` and `pull` commands, you can use `origin` instead of typing out the whole URL
5. `git push -u origin master`: sets local `master` branch to "track" `origin` and pushes `master`'s working tree to remote defined by `origin`. (equivalent command: `git push --set-upstream origin master`)

Tracking branches are local branches that have a direct relationship to a remote branch. If you’re on a tracking branch and type git push, Git automatically knows which server and branch to push to. Also, running git pull while on one of these branches fetches all the remote references and then automatically merges in the corresponding remote branch [source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4693588/what-is-a-tracking-branch).

Good read:
1. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11690709/can-a-project-have-multiple-origins

### hooks

`pre-receive` hook

This would be used to execute a script when a remote receives a push that is triggered before any `refs` are updated [read](https://help.github.com/en/enterprise/2.15/admin/developer-workflow/creating-a-pre-receive-hook-script).

### git stash

`git stash` can be used to "stash" some changes so that they are no longer in your working tree. This allows you to checkout ot other branches. Usually, this is used when you begin to work on some branch and then realise you are working on the wrong branch. You can use `git stash` to "stash" these changes (out of the working tree), checkout to the appropriate branch, and apply the stashed changes.

`git stash` to save your un-committed changes in a "stash" (this removes changes from working tree?)

`git checkout some_branch` to change to correct branch

`git stash list` to list stashes

`git stash apply stash@{12}` to apply some stash to current branch (in this case its stash `12`)

`git stash drop stash@{0}` to remove from stash list

`git stash pop stash@{1}` to apply selected stash and drop it from stash list

Alternative Workaround:

1. Make a commit with those desired changes on current "wrong" branch

2. Checkout to the branch you want those changes to be on.

3. From that branch `git cherry-pick 23h123kjb` (<-- replace this hash with the one found in a git log specific to the commit you want to bring in)

4. Checkout to previous "wrong" branch

5. `git reset HEAD~1` (rolls back branch to previous commit -- by default "mixed" reset is used which means that changes are placed on the working tree only and do not remain on your index)

**Note:** sometimes git will allow you to checkout another branch if you have uncommitted changes, but sometimes it does not. Read more about that [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22053757/checkout-another-branch-when-there-are-uncommitted-changes-on-the-current-branch).

Source:
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37417792/apply-stash-to-different-branch/41978867

### To modify / "ammend" commit message of latest commit:

`git commit --amend -m "New commit message"`

Source:
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/179123/how-to-modify-existing-unpushed-commit-messages

### List tracked files

Use `git ls-tree -r HEAD` to list tracked files. Pass `--name-only` flag if you want to list files of the current branch only.
